Update: Image Analysis in Galaxy Community SIG page (#3658)
galaxyproject/galaxy-hub: content/community/sig/image-analysis/index.md

---
description: "This community is for you: a space for researchers and developers to extract quantitative information from images through scalable and reusable workflows." 
autotoc: true
title: "Image Analysis Community in Galaxy"
---

<slot name="/community/sig/common_linkbox" />

<img src="image_analysis_in_galaxy_logo.png" width="300px" alt="Image Analysis in Galaxy title"/>

<br />

Welcome to the Image Analysis Community in Galaxy!

> Bridging multiple disciplines, this community brings you together with researchers and developers from across different scientific fields to co-create tools and reusable workflows.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**The Galaxy Imaging community** integrates multiples disciplines and aims to connect scientists from different scientific fields. Our main goal is to bring together researchers and developers to create open-access tools and reusable imaging workflows.
```

# Getting started: GTN tutorials

Whether you are new to image preprocessing and analysis or an experienced analyst, the **[Galaxy Training Network (GTN)](https://training.galaxyproject.org)** is your gateway to mastery. 

The Imaging community maintains a dedicated **[Imaging Scientific Topic](https://training.galaxyproject.org/training-material/topics/imaging/)** within the GTN. Our resources are designed to kick-start your understanding of **image data fundamentals** and the application behind complex analysis, ensuring you are guided and learn the science of imaging alongside the platform.

Our imaging tutorials cover:

* **Foundational Training**: Introduction to multidimensional image data, metadata standards, and digital signal processing.
* **Advanced Image RDM**: Specialized tutorials on **Research Data Management (RDM)** tailored for imaging, focusing on data stewardship, provenance, and FAIR practices.

> * **Ecosystem Integration**: Expert-level guides on **OMERO integration**, teaching you how to seamlessly manage and analyze data between Galaxy and remote image repositories.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **Imaging Ecosystem Integration**: Expert-level guides teaching you how to manage and analyze data between Galaxy and remote image repositories such as [OMERO](https://www.openmicroscopy.org/omero/), [IDR](https://idr.openmicroscopy.org/), [BioImage Archive](https://www.ebi.ac.uk/bioimage-archive/) and [Zenodo](https://zenodo.org/).
```

## Image analysis tools

> The Galaxy ToolShed offers a vast library of tools for image analysis, supporting the entire data lifecycle:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Galaxy ToolShed offers a library of tools for image analysis, supporting the entire data lifecycle:
```

* **[ilastik](https://usegalaxy.eu/root?tool_id=interactive_tool_ilastik)**: The interactive learning and segmentation toolkit that leverages machine learning to perform pixel classification and object segmentation.
* **[Cellpose Interactive](https://usegalaxy.eu/root?tool_id=interactive_tool_cellpose)**: Fine-tune your cellular segmentation parameters on-the-fly.

![Napari Visualization](/images/galaxy-napari.png)
*Visualizing complex imaging data directly in the browser using the Napari interactive tool.*

## Visualizations

The **[zarr](https://zarr.dev/)** format is our standard for cloud-native, large-scale image data. By supporting **OME-Zarr** and **GEOZarr**, we enhance data reusability across disciplines. Our community leverages tools like **vizarr** to bring high-performance, cross-discipline visualization to life.

<video-player
  src="/community/sig/image-analysis/vizarr-visualization.mp4"
  style="display:block; width:100%; height:auto; max-width:100%; margin:0 auto;"
></video-player>

## A dedicated Galaxy interface

> For a streamlined experience, visit our dedicated portal, **[imaging.usegalaxy.eu](https://imaging.usegalaxy.eu)**, tailored specifically for imaging scientists with pre-configured toolsets and workflows.

Reviewer 2: pre-configured gives the impression that the parameters are there, I like the previous sentence more
